This may or may not fit in with the rest, but as the idea is fresh, I am typing it.

To avoid too much copyrigth violation I wish to call this idea Minetest DTS.
So as the eager ones would already have understood, this is a Youth-With-A-Mission oriented video game based Dicepleship Training School. 
As I think about it, this school could well be for the already enrolled University-Of-The-Nations-students.
Also the theme of the school would be very transcendentalist-focused and the duration probably nine monts in order to eperience the seasons.
Minetest is an open source clone of minec**** with the bare version free of Mobs or monsters.
So say a class of ten able young people showed up at autumn. 
They could be taugth the basics of the transcendentalist writers and their different flavours of thinking and how they could be linked to the current landscape.
Also, in a Minetest-inspired setting the students should be allowed to co-create the world, being allowed to pick a spot in a prefferable vast estate. 
They should be allowed to pick materials and technology with mild guidence and due physics teaching. 
And then as the idea goes, they should progress the school year with arcitecting their own individual heremit residence according to their wishes and the laws of physics. 
In this house, then they would live and experience the seasons of the year in some months, practicing a number of crafts and skills to overcome challanges of off-grid-living.
They would be part of a class but still individual pioneers and connected via som text radio, a chat, and maybe even some kind of wrist watch.
Journals would be kept and throughout the class new skills should be documented and open sourced.
At base where they all should have a room, or at least a minetest-style bed and bookshelf, they should regularly meet to update each other and help each other focus at the task at hand.
At base we would need all the greenshift machines and all hands should learn to use them and even reproduce them. This is looking like a tough school already.
Perhaps it should be made into a reality tv-show as well, although I can't see how that could resonate with neither the transcendentalist objecive nor the christianity one.
Anyway, that is the idea, and now it is here. I probably will not use it, and I take no legal responsibility as to how others do.
